JPA stands for the Java Persistence API.
And much like Spring's roots, JPA was designed to make things easier.
JPA focused on an object‑relational mapping,
or commonly referred to as just an ORM design principle.
Originally, it was part of the EJB specification,
but was later extracted out to be available just on its own.
So, what is JPA?
Well,
there's a little debate on whether or not JPA started off as
Hibernate because there were some other frameworks that had an
influence into that design as well.
But for our course,
we're going to be using Hibernate for our implementation anyway.
It is an ORM, or an object‑relational mapping tool,
and this is how we map our object‑oriented language to our relational database.
Much like Spring,
it is POJO based and has a focus that's around being
built on the object‑oriented development.
So if you've used things like JDBC or some of the
other Java persistence frameworks,
they have a tendency to focus more on the database side of things.
Not saying that they're more powerful for that,
but they tend to make you have some bad object‑oriented development practices,
where JPA and the JPA specification really focus on good OO design.
You can use XML configuration for POJOs much like Spring,
or you can do the annotation‑based configuration
that we'll be doing in this course.
Since it is like Spring,
everything is going to be built around these best
practices and how we want to design our code,
keeping a better OO design inside of our application.
And lastly, we also have pluggable persistence providers.
Now, this is kind of an interesting point.
I've had people ask me before,
why do I care if I can swap out a persistence provider?
And I actually have on three different projects swapped out the entire
persistence provider that I was using from one framework to another because
it worked better with the database that I was using.
So for this example, we are going to be using Hibernate,
but there's TopLink or EclipseLink.
And I won't say that they're better or worse than Hibernate,
but they've been around, and they actually kind of solve some different problems.
So that we can have these swappable persistence providers is actually a good thing and keeps everybody in check.